# Neverquest

An incremental, progressive browser-based Action RPG with idle elements.

The SLIM system generates a pseudo-random variety of names for different fantasy-themed Strangers, Locations, Items and Monsters that the player interacts with.

## Objectives

- Player always has something to do
- No explicit, arbitrary timeouts or countdowns
- No resets for incremental bonuses
- Every run can be different
- More like Crank, less like Trimps
- No carpal tunnel
- Working towards an ultimate goal to truly end the game
- Manage an economy of resources
- Things don’t take aaaages

### Spector 6+2+1

1. What’s the core idea? Can you describe the core of the game in 2-3 sentences?
   - An incremental game with Action RPG, focusing on player interaction. No long waits, cliffs or walls. No obligatory resets for incremental gains.
1. Why do this game?
   - I want to play it, I can’t find anything like it
1. What are the development challenges?
   - Free time, i.e. funding
1. How well-suited to video games is the idea?
   - It is unique to games since it requires lots of number work
1. What’s the player fantasy?
   - Ever increasing power and challenge
1. What does the player do? (What are the “verbs” of the game?)
   - Explore
   - Fight
   - Loot
   - Level up
   - Encounter
1. Has anyone done this before?
   - Trimps
   - NGU Idle
   - Candybox 1 & 2
   - Crank
   - Antimatter
   - Swarm Simulator
1. What’s the one new thing?
   - Influence every aspect of your character without the need for tropes and archetypes
1. Do you have something to say?
   - Browser games with only UI and no graphics can be as engaging as bigger games.

## LOCRA

TODO

## Gameplay

### Wilderness

Engage and fight monsters. Every wilderness level has a certain amount of monsters. Killing all monsters increases the next wilderness level by 1 and allows progression to the Caravan.

The name of the wilderness level is generated by SLIM.

### Caravan

Encountered after finishing every wilderness level. Can be upgraded to add more crew that offer goods and services.

All goods and services are purchasable with coins, scrap or aether. Once there, the only option is to go back to the wilderness.

#### Default crew

The following two members are always present at game start.

##### Merchant

Sell and buy items. The only source of coins for the player by selling their items. Has a limited amount of coin to spare. Amount of coins and discounts of selling and buying can be upgraded.

##### Mercenary

Acquire new physical skills, attributes and passives.

#### Purchasable crew

Purchasing a caravan crew member makes them available in the next encounter.

##### Cook

Restores all health. Grants a Well Fed buff.

##### Blacksmith

Repair, dismantle, craft and upgrade equipment. Requires coins as well as scrap and aether.

##### Alchemist

Buy potions and poisons.

##### Witch

Enchant and disenchant equipment. Acquire attributes.

##### Tailor

Upgrade backpack.

##### Sorcerer

Acquire sorceries and auras. Acquire attributes.

##### Medic

Saves the character from death (no restart necessary) in return for a percentage of all coins, scrap and aether.

## Character

Manage equipment. Manage skills. View buffs and debuffs.

### Resource

#### Health (resource)

Total amount of damage the player can take before game over at 0 health.

#### Stamina (resource)

Consumed with every attack.

#### Energy

Consumed when activating skills and sorceries.

#### XP

Gained from killing monsters. Spent on attributes and to learn new skills. Costs increase for every allocation.

#### Level

+1 level for each attribute allocation and skill acquisition. The character level in combination with the global level determines the monster level.

#### Scrap

Gained from dismantling equipment at the blacksmith and dropped from monsters. Used to craft equipment.

#### Aether

Gained from disenchanting equipment and dropped from monsters. Used to enchant equipment.

#### Coins

Gained from selling scrap, aether and items to Merchant. Used to pay for services and items from caravan crew.

### Equipment

#### Weapons

2 slots total, 1 for each hand.

##### No weapon

No modifiers.

##### Light weapon

- 1 slot
- Low damage
- High attack rate
- Low stamina requirement
- Chance to bleed on hit

##### Balanced weapon

- 1 slot
- Medium damage
- Medium attack rate.
- Low stamina requirement

##### Heavy weapon

- 1 slot
- High damage
- Low attack rate
- Medium stamina requirement
- Chance to stun

##### Two-handed weapon

- 2 slots
- Highest damage
- Lowest attack rate
- High stamina requirement
- Chance for execution (instant monster death)

#### Armor

Armor basically provides Protection. When hit by an attack, the Protection value is subtracted from total damage received. Each subsequent type increases the Protection value.

##### No armor

No modifiers.

##### Light armor

- Low Protection
- Low -% dodge
- +% critical chance

##### Reinforced armor

- Medium Protection
- Medium -% dodge
- +% damage

##### Plate armor

- High Protection
- High -% dodge
- -% attack rate
- +% chance to deflect spells

#### Shield

Adds Protection. Grants Stagger percentage which determines the chance to stun the attacker temporarily when successfully blocking.

#### Accessory

Various buffs and bonuses.

#### Potion

Grants temporary buff. Cures ailment. Adds poison damage to weapons.

#### Backpack

Grants inventory slots and potion slots.

### Mastery

Using a particular weapon or armor type increases its associated mastery. Weapon mastery increases when attacking and armor mastery increases when being hit. Leveling up mastery confers bonuses on the respective armor and weapon types.

Certain weapons require mastery levels before they can be used effectively.

### Skills

#### Physical

#### Passive

Permanent effects that once acquired always provide their benefits.

##### Dual wielding

Allows the use of a 1-handed weapon in main hand as well as offhand.

##### Shieldcraft

Allows the use of a shield in offhand.

#### Sorcery

Cast spells with immediate and/or over-time effects.

#### Aura

Cast spells that remain active until dispelled. Provides buffs and other positive status effects in return for reserving a percentage of energy.

### Attributes

Named attributes each provide a direct effect for each point assigned.

#### Acumen

Spell casting rate.

#### Agility

Chance to dodge a monster's attack.

#### Dexterity

Chance of landing a critical hit.

#### Endurance

Maximum total stamina resource.

#### Fortitude

Stamina regeneration rate.

#### Intellect

Energy regeneration amount.

#### Luck

Amount of loot dropped by monsters.

#### Perception

Damage multiplier of a critical hit.

#### Resilience

Rate of recovery after being hit.

#### Speed

Rate of attack.

#### Strength

Total damage of an attack.

#### Tenacity

Amount of damage taken without needing to recover.

#### Vigor

Health regeneration rate.

#### Vitality

Maximum total health resource.

#### Wisdom

Total energy.

### Ailments

Temporary or permanent debuffs granted by Monsters.

### Traits

Traits are permanent passive abilities that are unlocked when reaching certain Mastery levels as well as on certain Attributes.

## Achievements

Meta progression. Grant bonuses when completed.

### Combat-based

- Kill first monster
- Kill 5/10/25/50/100/1000 monsters _(5 achievements)_
- Kill a monster in one hit
- Kill a monster with bleed damage
- Dodge 1/5/10/25/50/100 hits
- Dodge 3 hits in a row
- Reflect damage

### Caravan-based

- Purchase an item
- Hire first new crew member
- Hire X _(X = crew member)_

### Equipment-based

- Equip a weapon
- Equip armor
- Equip a shield

### Meta

- Achieve 5/10/25/50/100/all achievements (lol)
