# Neverquest

_An irreverent UI-based incremental action role-playing game for web browsers._

This README serves as a gameplay guide, technical manual and glossary of terms. For all "[TODO]" tags, see the roadmap.

The UI is split up into the character and the encounter panels, with most interactions between the two taking place via a column of gameplay control buttons in between them.

## Character

The main panel on the left of the UI. View the character's, [reserves](#-reserves), [statistics](#-statistics), [resources](#-resources), buffs and debuffs, and set their name.

### Reserves

Determine the basic status of the character.

#### Health

Total amount of damage the character can take before game over at 0 health.

It is regenerated over time.

#### Stamina

If the character is wielding a [weapon](#-weapon) with a stamina cost, this cost is paid with every attack. If there isn't enough stamina in reserve when attacking, no attacks can take place.

It is regenerated over time, at a faster initial pace than health.

#### Energy

[TODO]

Consumed when activating skills and sorceries, regenerated over time.

### Resources

Collected by looting dead monsters

#### Coins

Gained from selling scrap and items to the merchant and dropped by certain rare monsters. Used to pay for crew, some of their services and any item purchases.

#### Essence

Gained from killing monsters and disenchanting equipment. Primarily spent on attribute ranks. Essence cost increases for every rank allocation.

Essence can also be used to enchant equipment. [TODO]

#### Scrap

Gained from dismantling [equipment](#-equipment) at the blacksmith and dropped from monsters. Used to craft equipment and trade for coins.

### Statistics

These are derived from the character's attributes, equipment, any current buffs and debuffs.

#### Damage per second

Requires toggling on in the global [settings](#-settings). If on, shows the expected damage per second the character can deal if [attack rate](#-attack-rate) and current [total damage](#-total-damage) remain stable.

#### Attack rate

Time duration between attacks, not considering any interruptions.

#### Block chance

Percentage chance that when defending, all incoming non-protected damage is blocked.

#### Critical chance

Percentage chance that when attacking, critical damage is dealt, adding to [total damage](#-total-damage).

#### Critical damage

Percentage increase of total damage dealt when attacking in case of a [critical hit](#-critical-chance).

#### Dodge chance

Percentage determining the chance of when defending, the character avoids all damage entirely.

#### Health regeneration rate

Time duration until [health](#-health) is restored by one.

#### Protection

Amount of damage that is discarded when defending.

#### Recovery rate

Time duration until the character continues to regenerate [reserves](#-reserves) and readies their next attack.

#### Stagger rate

Time duration of the monster unable to ready their next attack if the character has successfully blocked.

#### Stamina regeneration rate

Time duration until [stamina](#-stamina) is restored by one.

#### Total damage

Damage from [strength](#-strength) in addition to [weapon](#-weapon) damage with any other bonuses.

## Encounter

The main panel to the right of the screen. It changes based on one of the two possible locations of the character, [wilderness](#-wilderness) and [caravan](#-caravan).

### Wilderness

Engage and fight monsters. Every wilderness level is different by name and has a certain amount of monsters (a wave) of a certain power. Killing all monsters allows progression to the [caravan](#-caravan).

The character must reach the end of the wave again to gain access to the loot and the ability to travel to the caravan. With the acquisition of the [compass](#-compass), a completed wilderness level can be restarted to gain more [loot](#-reserves).

The name of the wilderness level is randomly generated by [LOCRA](#-locra).

#### Combat

The wilderness initially always has a lurking [monster](#-monster). When ready, the character can choose to attack continuously at their current [attack rate](#-attack-rate), engaging the monster in the process. While engaged, the monster will also attack continuously, triggering the character to defend themselves. When the monster hits the character, [recovery](#-recovery-rate) is triggered. While recovering, the character won't be able to attack or regenerate their [reserves](#-reserves).

Both the character and monster will keep attacking each other until either the character retreats, upon which the monster's health instantly regenerates to its maximum, or if the monster or character is dead (health reaches zero). Upon a monster's death, the wave progress is incremented and the next monster is attacked automatically, unless the character retreats.

The wilderness level is considered completed when the wave progress is at its maximum. At this point, [loot](#-reserves) can be collected.

#### Monster

A creature with a randomly generated name that will continuously attack the character as soon as it's engaged. It has health and a certain attack rate based on the wilderness level.

The character can deal damage, as well as stagger it when blocking and debuff it using various skills and weapon effects.

### Caravan

Encountered after completed a [wilderness](#-wilderness) level. It can be upgraded to add more crew that offer goods and services.

All goods and services offered by the caravan crew are purchasable with [coins](#-coins), [scrap](#-scrap) or [essence](#-essence), granting various different upgrades.

Once at the caravan, the only other option apart from interacting with the crew is to go back to the wilderness, which will be generated at a higher level (thereby being more challenging) than the previous time.

The [merchant](#-merchant) is always present from the start.

Other crew members can be acquired at a cost of coins. Some have additional requirements before they are unlocked for purchase.

#### Merchant

Sell and buy items. Exchange scrap for coins. Coins can then be used to purchase whatever the merchant has available and used for other goods and services of the caravan.

The merchant's inventory of items will grow and diversify progressively.

#### Mercenary

Acquire new physical [skills](#-skills) and [attributes](#-attributes).

#### Cook

Restores all [health](#-health), [stamina](#-stamina) and [energy](#-energy). Grants a Well Fed buff for the first wave (+10% [mastery](#-mastery) gain).

#### Tailor

Increase maximum [encumbrance](#-inventory), add extra trinkets slots and add extra [potion](#-potion) slots [TODO].

#### Blacksmith

Repair, dismantle, craft and upgrade [weapons](#-weapon) and [armor](#-armor). Requires coins as well as scrap.

#### Medic

[TODO]

Their presence saves the character from death (no restart necessary) once per wilderness level in return for a percentage of all coins, scrap and essence. Upgrades to the medic's supplies, paid in coins and/or scrap, reduce this death payment.

#### Alchemist

[TODO]

Buy [elixirs](##-elixir), [salves](##-salve) and [poisons](##-poison).

#### Sorcerer

[TODO]

Acquire [sorceries](#-sorcery) and [auras](#-aura). Acquire certain attributes.

#### Witch

[TODO]

Enchant and disenchant [equipment](#-equipment), requiring essence. Acquire certain attributes.

## Inventory

The inventory is accessible as soon as the character acquires the [knapsack](#-knapsack) from the merchant. An item can either be;

a) a piece of [equipment](#-equipment) that can be worn, or
b) a consumable like an [elixir](#-elixir), or
c) a [trinket](#-trinket) that grants specific effects when equipped.

### Knapsack

Allows for the storing of items. Allows equipping and un-equipping [equipment](#-equipment).

### Encumbrance

The inventory size is constrained by encumbrance, to which each item adds a certain amount. No further items can be acquired until the remaining encumbrance allows for it.

## Equipment

Slots that can be equipped and unequipped from the inventory. If the particular.

### Weapons

Weapons are the main way of fighting monsters. Every weapon type and class has specific modifiers, advantages and disadvantages for wielding them.

#### Weapon type

The type of weapon determines how combat happens.

##### Melee

Standard type that has no special features.

##### Ranged

[TODO]

#### Weapon class

Whatever its [type](#-weapon-type), a weapon falls into one of several classes that intrinsically grant certain modifiers.

##### Unarmed

No initial modifiers.

##### Light

- 1 slot
- Low damage
- High attack rate
- Low stamina requirement
- Chance to bleed on hit

##### Balanced

- 1 slot
- Medium damage
- Medium attack rate.
- Low stamina requirement

##### Heavy

- 1 slot
- High damage
- Low attack rate
- Medium stamina requirement
- Chance to stun

##### Two-handed

[TODO]

- 2 slots
- Highest damage
- Lowest attack rate
- High stamina requirement
- Chance for execution (instant monster death)

### Armor

Armor provides Protection. When hit by an attack, the Protection value is subtracted from total damage received. Each subsequent type increases the Protection value.

#### No armor

No modifiers.

#### Hide

- Low Protection
- Low -% dodge
- +% critical chance

#### Reinforced

- Medium Protection
- Medium -% dodge
- +% damage

#### Plate

- High Protection
- High -% dodge
- -% attack rate
- +% chance to deflect spells

### Off-hand

This slot allows the wielding of shields, [two-handed weapons](##-two-handed) or other off-hand items [TODO].

#### Shield

Grants block chance, providing a percentage [chance to block](#-block-chance) all incoming damage. Also grants a stagger rate, determining the length of time the monster would be incapacitated upon the character successfully blocking.

### Trinket

Can grant various buffs and effects while equipped. Initially, only one trinket can be equipped at a time, but more slots can be acquired via the [tailor](#-tailor).

Here are some of the early items available from the merchant.

#### Compass

Allows the character to re-start the current wilderness level upon completion rather than only being able to go to the caravan.

#### Hearthstone

Allows the character to go to the caravan regardless of if the current wilderness level's wave is cleared or not. Cannot be engaged in combat while using it.

## Potion

[TODO]

One of three types that take up the potion slot(s).

Further slots can be added by the [tailor](#-tailor).

### Elixir

Restores health, stamina or both. Purchased from the [alchemist](#-alchemist).

### Salve

Grants temporary buff or immunizes against ailment

### Poison

Adds poison to weapons automatically with each hit, applying damage-over-time effects and potentially other ailments. Has a certain number of charges before it is used up.

## Mastery

[TODO]

Using a particular weapon or armor type increases its associated mastery. Weapon mastery increases when attacking and armor mastery increases when being hit.

Leveling up mastery confers bonuses on the respective armor and weapon types. Certain weapons require mastery levels before they can be used effectively.

## Skills

Skills are acquired from caravan crew and can either be activated or passive.

### Passive skills

Permanent effects that once acquired always provide their benefits.

#### Armorcraft

Allows the use of reinforced and plate armors.

#### Assassination

Unlocks dexterity and perception attributes, as well as critical chance and damage modifiers on equipment.

#### Shieldcraft

Allows the use of medium and tower shields.

#### Quick reflexes

Unlocks Agility attribute and dodge chance modifiers on equipment.

#### Dual wielding

[TODO]

Allows the use of a 1-handed weapon in main hand as well as offhand.

### Activated skills

[TODO]

Once acquired, activating a skill requires [energy](#-energy).

#### Physical

Special combat skills that can be activated during combat.

#### Sorcery

Cast spells with immediate and/or over-time effects.

#### Aura

Cast spells that remain active until dispelled. Provides buffs and other positive status effects in return for reserving a percentage of energy.

## Attributes

Attributes each provide a direct increasing effect for each rank. Each rank allocation raises the character level by 1.

[Essence](#-essence) is used to allocate ranks. The cost of allocation is increased for every rank.

### Agility

Chance to dodge a monster's attack.

### Dexterity

Chance of landing a critical hit.

### Endurance

Maximum total stamina resource.

### Fortitude

Stamina regeneration rate.

### Luck

Amount of loot dropped by monsters.

### Perception

Damage multiplier of a critical hit.

### Resilience

Rate of recovery after being hit.

### Speed

Rate of attack.

### Strength

Base damage of an attack.

### Vigor

Health regeneration rate.

### Vitality

Maximum total health resource.

### Acumen

[TODO]

Spell casting rate.

### Intellect

[TODO]

Energy regeneration amount.

### Tenacity

[TODO]

Amount of damage taken without needing to recover.

### Wisdom

[TODO]

Total energy.

## Ailment

[TODO]

Temporary or permanent debuffs caused by Monsters. Can be treated by [potions].

## Traits

[TODO]

Traits are permanent passive abilities that are unlocked when reaching certain Mastery levels as well as certain Attributes.

- Bruiser: current stamina adds unarmed bonus damage
- Scrounger: double looting rate

## Achievements

[TODO]

Meta progression. Grant bonuses when completed.

### Combat-based

- Kill first monster
- Kill 5/10/25/50/100/1000 monsters _(5 achievements)_
- Kill a monster in one hit
- Kill a monster with bleed damage
- Dodge 1/5/10/25/50/100 hits
- Dodge 3 hits in a row
- Reflect damage

### Caravan-based

- Purchase an item
- Hire first new crew member
- Hire X _(X = crew member)_

### Equipment-based

- Equip a weapon
- Equip armor
- Equip a shield

### Meta

- Achieve 5/10/25/50/100/all achievements

## Settings

These are accessible via the "?" menu on the page header. They allow the activation and deactivation of certain global features.

### NSFW mode

Default: off. Toggles the generation of not-safe-for-work words in [LOCRA](#-locra).

### Show damage per second (DPS)

Default: off. Toggles DPS information for the character, equipment and monster.

### Auto-equip new items

Default: on. Toggles the automatic equipping of weapons, armor, shields and potions once they are acquired.

### Show all elements

Default: off. Once toggled, all elements of the UI will be shown at once instead of being unlocked gradually as gameplay progresses and features become relevant. Suitable for veteran players starting a new run.

## LOCRA

The LOCRA (LOcation, CReature, Artifact) system generates a pseudo-random variety of names for different irreverent fantasy-themed items and monsters that the player character interacts with.

It works by generating a name for a location, creature or artifact based on a JSON library of (loosely) fantasy-world-themed words that can be composed to make (somewhat) coherent names for the three types in question. Parameters for tags and affix composition can be passed to make the generation more specific. If NSFW (not-safe-for-work) mode is on, the names may also be pornographic or decidedly non-fantasy-themed.

Generating a creature name, for example, depending on the parameters passed, might yield anything from "Intrepid Farmer" to "Voluptuous Manticore of Unmitigated Penetration".

LOCRA can be considered somewhat independent of Neverquest, as it can be used outside of the game's implementation. However, it is bundled as part of the same codebase, accessible under `src/locra`.

## Roadmap

Neverquest is a work-in-progress. Several features marked with "[TODO]" are pending refinement and implementation.

- `v1.0.0` [CURRENT] -

## Local set up

To run the app locally, you will need a command-line interface (CLI) on any operating system, as well as [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) and [NPM](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/configuring-npm/install) installed globally.

1. Open the the CLI and change into a suitable directory (e.g. "My Documents" folder)
1. Run `git clone git@github.com:cneuro/neverquest.git`
1. Run `cd neverquest`
1. Run `npm install`
1. Run `npm start`
1. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the app in the browser.

## Implementation

- This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

- Written in [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).

- The UI framework is provided by [Bootstrap](https://react-bootstrap.github.io).

- The app state management library is [Jotai](https://jotai.org).

## License

Neverquest &copy; 2022 is licensed under [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/)

## Appendices

### 1. Gameplay objectives

- Player always has something to do
- No long waits, cliffs or walls
- No obligatory resets for incremental gains
- No excessive or repetitive clicking
- Decisions are frequent and they matter
- High character build variety
- Manage an economy of resources and character builds with trade-offs

### 2. [Warren Spector's 6+2+1 questions](https://www.gamedeveloper.com/design/warren-spector-traces-i-deus-ex-i-s-development-back-to-a-game-of-d-d)

1. What’s the core idea? Can you describe the core of the game in 2-3 sentences?
   - An incremental action RPG, focusing on player interaction, which can be played in any browser on any system. Exploring and fighting through the hostile world yields its secrets, with the only respite being a gradually growing caravan of .
1. Why do this game?
   - I want to play it, I can’t find anything like it. Other UI-focused browser-based games are either idle clickers or Flash-based monstrosities.
1. What are the development challenges?
   - Free time, i.e. funding.
1. How well-suited to video games is the idea?
   - It is unique to video games since it requires lots of numerical computation.
1. What’s the player fantasy?
   - Ever increasing power and challenge with the freedom to build how said power and challenges are surmounted.
1. What does the player do? (What are the “verbs” of the game?)
   - Explore
   - Fight
   - Loot
   - Level up
   - Encounter
   - Trade
1. Has anyone done this before?
  Not quite in the same way. Clear influences are:
   - Progress Quest (the progenitor of all text-heavy UI-based incremental games, also with a swords & sorcery fantasy theme)
   - Trimps (complex idle/incremental all about building )
   - NGU Idle (incremental irreverent UI-based fantasy adventure)
   - Candybox 1 & 2 (irreverent fantasy adventure with 2D world elements heavy on player interaction and with player death)
   - Crank (user-interaction-driven adventure/mystery game with gradually unlocking and expanding storyline and gameplay)
   - Antimatter (incremental idler all about big numbers and ascension mechanics)
   - Swarm Simulator (the premier Bootstrapped-based incremental/idle browser game all about ever-increasing numbers and progress bars)
   - Hero Simulator (light-hearted fantasy setting with many upgrades)
1. What’s the one new thing?
   - Influence every aspect of your character without the need for tropes and archetypes.
1. Do you have something to say?
   - Browser games with only text, UI and no graphics can be just as engaging as and can have similar gameplay depth to traditional video games without relying solely on simplistic deterministic incremental progress.
